[MUSIC]
Hello, again,
in this video we're gonna unravel the
mysteries of the Animator Controller and
create our GameObject Lizard that is
walking using our sprite sheet animations.
So let's jump in and get started.
I'm gonna start off by tidying up my
new sprite, just get rid of that.
That was a placeholder, don't need it any
more, what we do need to do though is
right-click, Create Empty,
and call this Lizard.
And then just reset the transform.
Okay, now I've been calling it Lizard.
If you downloaded this or if you're
looking to download from the main
asset pack, it's called the deimaginator.
I've just recalled it Lizard,
because deimaginator is a bit tricky
to say throughout this course, but
that's where it is if you're looking
in the official glitch assets.
Deimaginator is the Lizard, now to see
our Lizard we need to add a component,
which is the Sprite Renderer.
Sprite Renderer, great, and
we've done this before.
Let's find one of the frames from
the Lizard Walk, just Lizard Walk 7.
Drop that into the sprite in here and
now it knows what to show.
We're gonna change the order in layer to
five so it sits on top of my background.
And just with my W key,
move the Lizard, or deimaginator,
into the middle of the screen.
There we go, it looks pretty good.
So the Sprite Renderer is needed to
actually display it on the screen.
Now we're gonna be dealing with animation,
so
first of all make sure you have the
animator and animation windows somewhere.
You can go up to Window,
they've changed this recently in Unity.
These windows change around every now and
again.
If you find the Animation tab,
wherever that might be for you, and
then make sure you open up
the Animation and Animator windows.
Okay, I've got mine placed
down the bottom here.
Now let's talk about a little bit of
terminology so we're crystal clear.
First of all, the Animator Component
assigns animations to GameObjects
through an Animator Controller.
Okay, so that doesn't
necessarily make things clearer,
but we'll be adding a component onto
our GameObject which allows that
GameObject to say, right,
you need to have some animations.
And they'll be driven through
the Animated Controller.
What is the Animated Controller?
Well, it's the arrangement of
animations and transitions, and
it's a state machine so it could have
a walk state, or a walk animation.
And then a transition that says if
the player holds down the sprint key,
then we transition into the run animation.
So that's all handled in
the Animator Controller, and
then we need our individual animations,
obviously.
These are specific pieces of motion, the
run, the jump, the shoot, the fall over.
And then also as we've added already
we need the Sprite Renderer, and
this is what we need to actually
display the sprites onto the screen.
So there's some terminology for you, and
now what I'm gonna do is
something a little bit different.
I'm gonna go through the process of
creating the Animated Controller and
some animations for my character here.
What I'd like you to do as a challenge, is
to just watch and absorb and then see if
you can do all of this yourself when
we get to the time of the challenge.
So the steps of the challenge will be,
when we get to it, will be, well,
first of all watch [LAUGH], and
then do it on your own later on.
It will be to create
an Animated Component,
to create an Animator Controller,
to add the Animator Controller
to Lizard Game Object, and
to create an animation for the walk.
And then obviously we need to
do a little bit of tuning to
the speed of the animation so
that it looks good and makes sense.
So that will be the challenge shortly,
after I take you through all the steps.
I'm going to give you that challenge and
if you get stuck on the challenge you can
come back and rewatch for
any hints that you want.
So there's the challenge,
you can do it right now, or
you can wait until after I've done it,
okay.
So let's jump in and get started on this.
We have our Lizard,
we need to add a component,
and this will be the Animator Component.
Okay, now it's saying, okay,
I'm ready to do some animations, but
I need to know what is the controller,
what is the thing that's gonna
be determining when you run and
when you jump and what jump is?
So we need to create one of those.
I've got an animations folder.
I was playing around just before
a bit naughty off screen.
Let me delete that and do it so
we can do it together, okay?
In my Assets folder,
I'm gonna create surprise,
surprise, a new folder called Animations.
And in our Animations folder, right-click
and create Animator Controller.
We'll call this Lizard and you can see
it's now populated in our animator.
We have some stuff in there.
You can drag these and move them around.
These are the states at the moment,
it doesn't quite make sense,
there's isn't a lot going on.
We just have an entry state,
the first thing that happens and the exit.
This is when we exit out of
this Animated Controller.
We need some animations in here.
Now I'm gonna show you my preferred
way to create animations.
There's a lot of different ways to do it,
but I'll show you the way that I like to
do it which is to find
the thing we want to animate.
So go to your sprites and
find your Lizard Walk or whatever it is
that you've created, highlight all
of the frames of your animation,
and then right-click Create
> Find Animation, blink.
And now you see down the bottom
we can rename our new
animation to be Lizard Walk.
And we now have a Lizard Walk animation
that if we click on our Animation tab
here, you can see it has
all of these frames and
these individual frames are corresponding.
All these key frames are corresponding to
each of our images from our spreadsheet.
Now we can't see it at the moment.
If we click on Play there's
nothing to preview,
cuz it doesn't know what the model is or
what the representation is.
We've already created ourselves
a Lizard GameObject, so we'll grab that,
drag it on over into our preview.
Now when we click the Preview button,
we see it walking.
And in the preview, we can slow it
down [SOUND] to see how it goes, or
speed it up to see how that goes.
But that's not changing the speed
of the animation in the game.
That's just changing
the speed of the preview.
What we can do to change the speed
of the actual animation itself
is you see here samples.
At the moment what that's saying
is 12 samples per second.
We know that our Lizard has 16 frames.
So it's going to get through those,
all of those 16 frames,
in a little over a second.
So 12 frames per second.
This is taking us up to a second,
and there's another three or
four frames at the end there.
I'm gonna change this to say 100,
just to be silly.
So in this instance, we're getting through
our frames really quickly if I click Play.
Beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep,
that's funny, [LAUGH] it's kinda cool, but
it's not quite what the artist
was going for, I'm sure.
I think the happy medium here,
just from playing around with it,
is 24 frames per second for
this character.
That's a nice,
gentle meander that our Lizard's doing.
Okay, so
we now have an animation that's comprised
of our sprite sheet individual frames.
I'm gonna grab this animation and drag it
into my Animations folder so it's nice and
tidy, I know where to find it.
Now we have our Lizard Animator Controller
and our Lizard Walk.
And if we click on Lizard as a GameObject,
now we can say under Controller
what's the Animator Controller?
Let's click the selector and say it's
going to be the Lizard, excellent.
It now knows the Lizard Animated
Controller is gonna drive me.
If we click on the Lizard Animator
Controller and then click on the Animator
window, we can see that our Lizard Walk
animation is not yet in there.
So what we're gonna do if I can
resize my window a little bit here,
it's being a bit problematic,
there we go, got it.
Is to grab Lizard Walk and
drag it into my Animator Controller.
It comes in as this orange
state called Lizard Walk.
And it's got some details in the inspector
that we'll play around with a little bit
in upcoming videos.
And it has this line that is created,
which is a transition.
What it's saying in this instance is the
entry, so the very moment anything says,
hey, I need you to pay attention
to the Lizard Animator Controller,
which is probably when our Lizard
is spawned or instantiated.
And in this case,
it's right from the very start of the game
cuz we've dropped it in our hierarchy.
It will go from entry [SOUND]
straight along the transition,
immediately into Lizard Walk.
And there's no other transitions.
There's not a transition to die or
to jump,
so it will just stay on Lizard Walk over,
and over, and
over in this case, cuz there's only
one animation that we have in there.
So let's see if that works.
We've got our Lizard GameObject.
It has the Lizard Animator Controller.
The Lizard Animator Controller knows
about the Lizard Walk animation.
So if we click Play in our game now,
what do we see?
We see that our Lizard does a bit of
a walk, but you see it walked and
then stopped.
That looked like it went
through its 16 frames and
then stopped,
which to me says we're not looping.
Let's have a look and
see where we need to loop.
Well, the simplest way to do this is
to click on the Lizard Walk animation
we have in our folder here.
And you can see in our inspector
we have the loop time.
If you click Yes on looped time,
now when we click Play,
that animation should know that by
default it just loops over and over.
So there we go loopy, loop, loop, loop,
I'll go to the same view so we can see.
And our guy is walking in our game
fully animated, looking amazing.
And obviously as time goes on, and
we implement more features in our game,
we can tell it to move across
the screen as the animation's going.
Boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, so
it looks like it's actually walking.
Okay, so that's the full process.
Back to the challenge for you.
If you haven't been following along, or
sorry, if you haven't been creating as
you've been going,
this is the challenge for you to do now.
And if you were following along,
you might want to go and
create another Animated Controller
animation just to practice this to make
sure it's really embedded.
Some of the terms are a bit confusing.
Create an Animator Component,
create the Animator Controller,
add the Animator Controller
to the Lizard Game Object.
Create an animation, tune the speed
of the animation as we've done.
And then once you've done that, once you
have your Lizard or whatever you're using
in your game walking on the screen for
an animation, great work, job done.
And you can go along to the next video and
we'll continue along with our animation.
So great stuff and
I'll see you again real soon.